Rework Okta OAuth2 (#71349)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/okta/index.md

---
aliases:
  - ../../../auth/okta/
description: Configure Okta OAuth2 authentication
keywords:
  - grafana
  - configuration
  - documentation
  - oauth
  - okta
title: Configure Okta OAuth2 authentication
menuTitle: Okta OAuth2
weight: 1400
---

# Configure Okta OAuth2 authentication

{{< docs/shared "auth/intro.md" >}}

## Before you begin

To follow this guide:

- Ensure that you have access to the [Grafana configuration file]({{< relref "../../../configure-grafana#configuration-file-location" >}}).
- Ensure you know how to create an OAuth2 application with your OAuth2 provider. Consult the [documentation of Okta OAuth2](https://help.okta.com/en-us/Content/Topics/Apps/Apps_App_Integration_Wizard.htm) for more information.
- If you are using refresh tokens, ensure you know how to set them up with your OAuth2 provider. Consult the documentation of your OAuth2 provider for more information.

## Steps

To integrate your Okta OAuth2 provider with Grafana using our Okta OAuth2 integration, follow these steps:

> 1. [Create SWA app](https://help.okta.com/en-us/Content/Topics/Apps/Apps_App_Integration_Wizard_SWA.htm) or [create OCID app](https://help.okta.com/en-us/Content/Topics/Apps/Apps_App_Integration_Wizard_OIDC.htm) at the Okta applications section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Create an SWA app](https://help.okta.com/en-us/Content/Topics/Apps/Apps_App_Integration_Wizard_SWA.htm) or [OCID app](https://help.okta.com/en-us/Content/Topics/Apps/Apps_App_Integration_Wizard_OIDC.htm) at the Okta applications section.
```

1. Refer to the following table to update field values located in the `[auth.okta]` section of the Grafana configuration file:

   | Field                        | Description                                                                                                   |
   | ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | `client_id`, `client_secret` | These values must match the client ID and client secret from your Okta OAuth2 app.                            |
   | `auth_url`                   | The authorization endpoint of your OAuth2 provider. `https://<okta-tenant-id>.okta.com/oauth2v1authorize`     |
   | `token_url`                  | The token endpoint of your Okta OAuth2 provider. `https://<okta-tenant-id>.okta.com/token`                    |
   | `api_url`                    | The user information endpoint of your Okta OAuth2 provider. `https://<tenant-id>.okta.com/oauth2/v1/userinfo` |
   | `enabled`                    | Enables Okta OAuth2 authentication. Set this value to `true`.                                                 |

>    Review the list of other Okta OAuth2 [configuration options]({{< relref "#configuration-options" >}}) and complete them, as necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Review the list of other Okta OAuth2 [configuration options]({{< relref "#configuration-options" >}}) and complete them as necessary.
```

1. Optional: [Configure a refresh token]({{< relref "#configure-a-refresh-token" >}}):

>    a. Enable `accessTokenExpirationCheck` feature toggle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   a. Enable the `accessTokenExpirationCheck` feature toggle.
```

>    b. Extend the `scopes` field of `[auth.okta]` section in Grafana configuration file with refresh token scope used by your OAuth2 provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   b. Extend the `scopes` field of `[auth.okta]` section in Grafana configuration file with the refresh token scope used by your OAuth2 provider.
```

| `allowed_groups`        | No       | List of comma- or space-separated groups. The user should be a member of at least one group to log in. If you configure `allowed_groups`, you must also configure `groups_attribute_path`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |              |
| `allowed_domains`       | No       | List comma- or space-separated domains. The user should belong to at least one domain to log in.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |              |

> | `use_pkce`              | No       | Set to `true` to use [Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7636). Grafana uses the SHA256 based `S256` challenge method and a 128 bytes (base64url encoded) code verifier.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | `false`      |

Author: Added!

### Configure a refresh token

> Available in Grafana v9.3 and later versions.

> **Note:** This feature is behind the `accessTokenExpirationCheck` feature toggle.

When a user logs in using an OAuth provider, Grafana verifies that the access token has not expired. When an access token expires, Grafana uses the provided refresh token (if any exists) to obtain a new access token without requiring the user to log in again.

If a refresh token doesn't exist, Grafana logs the user out of the system after the access token has expired.

> 1. To enable the `Refresh Token`, grant type in the `General Settings` section of the Okta application.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what "grant type" means.

1. Extend the `scopes` in `[auth.okta]` with `offline_access`.

### Configure role mapping

> **Note:** Unless `skip_org_role_sync` option is enabled, the user's role will be set to the role retrieved from the auth provider upon user login.

The user's role is retrieved using a [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression from the `role_attribute_path` configuration option against the `api_url` endpoint payload.
To map the server administrator role, use the `allow_assign_grafana_admin` configuration option.
Refer to [configuration options]({{< relref "../generic-oauth/index.md#configuration-options" >}}) for more information.

If no valid role is found, the user is assigned the role specified by [the `auto_assign_org_role` option]({{< relref "../../../configure-grafana#auto_assign_org_role" >}}).
You can disable this default role assignment by setting `role_attribute_strict = true`.
This setting denies user access if no role or an invalid role is returned.

> Read about how to [add custom claims](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/customize-tokens-returned-from-okta/main/#add-a-custom-claim-to-a-token) to the user info in Okta. Also, check Generic OAuth page for [JMESPath examples]({{< relref "../generic-oauth/index.md#role-mapping-examples" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn about adding custom claims to the user info in Okta, refer to [add custom claims](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/customize-tokens-returned-from-okta/main/#add-a-custom-claim-to-a-token). Refer to the generic OAuth page for [JMESPath examples]({{< relref "../generic-oauth/index.md#role-mapping-examples" >}}).
```

### Configure team synchronization (Enterprise only)

> **Note:** Available in [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "../../../../introduction/grafana-enterprise" >}}) and [Grafana Cloud]({{< relref "../../../../introduction/grafana-cloud" >}}).

By using Team Sync, you can link your OAuth2 groups to teams within Grafana. This will automatically assign users to the appropriate teams.

> Map your Okta groups to teams in Grafana so that your users will automatically be added to

Reviewer: This text here basically repeats what in Line 121. Can this line be removed? And maybe change Line 121 to "By using Team Sync, you can link your Okta OAuth2 groups..."?

the correct teams.

Okta groups can be referenced by group names, like `Admins` or `Editors`.

> [Learn more about Team Sync]({{< relref "../../configure-team-sync" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about Team Sync, refer to [Confgure Team Sync]({{< relref "../../configure-team-sync" >}}).
```

---
aliases:
  - ../../../auth/okta/
description: Configure Okta OAuth2 authentication
keywords:
  - grafana
  - configuration
  - documentation
  - oauth
  - okta
title: Configure Okta OAuth2 authentication
menuTitle: Okta OAuth2
weight: 1400
---

# Configure Okta OAuth2 authentication

> To enable the Okta OAuth2 you must first register your application at [Okta](https://www.okta.com/). Okta will generate a `client_id` and a `client_secret` for you to use.

Author: Good catch! Changed as requested!

## Before you begin

To follow this guide:

- Ensure that you have access to the [Grafana configuration file]({{< relref "../../../configure-grafana#configuration-file-location" >}}).

> - Ensure you know how to create an OAuth2 application with your OAuth2 provider. Consult the documentation of your OAuth2 provider for more information.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion! Changed verbatim!

- If you are using refresh tokens, ensure you know how to set them up with your OAuth2 provider. Consult the documentation of your OAuth2 provider for more information.

> ## Integrate Okta OAuth2 with Grafana

Author: Changed!

> To integrate your Okta OAuth2 provicer with Grafana using our Okta OAuth2 integration, follow these steps:

Author: 🤦🏻

> 1. [Create SWA app integrations](https://help.okta.com/en-us/Content/Topics/Apps/Apps_App_Integration_Wizard_SWA.htm) section.

Author: I've added information for both scenarios. I have tested them and both seem to work without much trouble.

> 1. Set the callback URL for your OAuth2 app to `http://<my_grafana_server_name_or_ip>:<grafana_server_port>/login/generic_oauth`.

Author: Changed.

>    Ensure that the callback URL is the complete HTTP address that you use to access Grafana via your browser, but with the appended path of `/login/generic_oauth`.

Author: Changed.

   For the callback URL to be correct, it might be necessary to set the root_url option to [server], for example, if you are serving Grafana behind a proxy.

1. Refer to the following table to update field values located in the `[auth.generic_oauth]` section of the Grafana configuration file:

   | Field                        | Description                                                                                                   |
   | ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | `client_id`, `client_secret` | These values must match the client ID and client secret from your Okta OAuth2 app.                            |
   | `auth_url`                   | The authorization endpoint of your OAuth2 provider. `https://<okta-tenant-id>.okta.com/oauth2v1authorize`     |
   | `token_url`                  | The token endpoint of your Okta OAuth2 provider. `https://<okta-tenant-id>.okta.com/token`                    |

>    | `api_url`                    | The user information endpoint of your Okta OAuth2 provider. `https://<tenant-id>.okta.com/oauth2/v1/userinfo` |

Reviewer 2: I think we can skip these from the table, as the default value will work for them.

   | `enabled`                    | Enables Okta OAuth2 authentication. Set this value to `true`.                                                 |

   Review the list of other Okta OAuth2 [configuration options]({{< relref "#configuration-options" >}}) and complete them, as necessary.

> 1. Optional: [Configure a refresh token]({{< relref "#configure-a-refresh-token" >}}):

Reviewer 2: Let's make these steps Okta specific.

Author: This references how to configure a refresh token section of the Okta documentation. Very little has changed from the original source and after testing it, it looks quite accurate. Please let me know if there's anything I'm missing.

Reviewer 2: What I meant is:
* for step b. - can we specify the scope required by Okta instead of saying `the refresh token scope used by your OAuth2 provider`?
* for step c. - do you know if it is necessary to explicitly enable refresh tokens on Okta? Or are they enabled by default (like for GitLab)?

Reviewer 2: Ah, I can see that you've already added this info in the `Configure a refresh token` [section](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/71349/files#diff-8ace0d3ec49b661ceea540730d4c354e72ebc9492edca7a6b50cb536fad1e2eeR90).So I'd just mention that scope here as well.

Author: @IevaVasiljeva 

> for step b. - can we specify the scope required by Okta instead of saying the refresh token scope used by your OAuth2 provider?
I've added more descriptive steps in the following section `Configure a refresh token`

> for step c. - do you know if it is necessary to explicitly enable refresh tokens on Okta? Or are they enabled by default (like for GitLab)?
I can confirm they are not enabled by default at the Okta options.

Author: > Ah, I can see that you've already added this info in the Configure a refresh token section.So I'd just mention that scope here as well.

Added on both as requested

   a. Enable `accessTokenExpirationCheck` feature toggle.

   b. Extend the `scopes` field of `[auth.generic_oauth]` section in Grafana configuration file with refresh token scope used by your OAuth2 provider.

   c. Enable the refresh token on the provider if required.

1. [Configure role mapping]({{< relref "#configure-role-mapping" >}}).
1. Optional: [Configure team synchronization]({{< relref "#configure-team-synchronization" >}}).
1. Restart Grafana.

>    You should now see a generic OAuth2 login button on the login page and be able to log in or sign up with your OAuth2 provider.

Reviewer 2: Here and elsewhere - do a quick search for "generic" and replace it with Okta 😄 

```suggestion
   You should now see an Okta login button on the login page and be able to log in or sign up with Okta.
```

Author: Done!

| `allow_sign_up`         | No       | Controls Grafana user creation through the generic Okta OAuth2 login. Only existing Grafana users can log in with Okta OAuth2 if set to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | `true`       |
| `auto_login`            | No       | Set to `true` to enable users to bypass the login screen and automatically log in. This setting is ignored if you configure multiple auth providers to use auto-login.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | `false`      |

> | `role_attribute_path`   | No       | [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) expression to use for Grafana role lookup. Grafana will first evaluate the expression using the Okta OAuth2 ID token. If no role is found, the expression will be evaluated using the user information obtained from the UserInfo endpoint. The result of the evaluation should be a valid Grafana role (`Viewer`, `Editor`, `Admin` or `GrafanaAdmin`). For more information on user role mapping, refer to [Configure role mapping]({{< relref "#configure-role-mapping" >}}). |              |

Reviewer 2: This logic is slightly different for different OAuth providers. Just making a note to double-check if it's the same for Okta as it is for generic OAuth.

Author: From the original [documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/okta/#map-roles) the text looks ok. Please let me know if I am missing anything.

Reviewer 2: If it is accurate, then I'm happy to leave it as is 👍

| `allowed_domains`       | No       | List comma- or space-separated domains. The user should belong to at least one domain to log in.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |              |
| `use_pkce`              | No       | Set to `true` to use [Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7636). Grafana uses the SHA256 based `S256` challenge method and a 128 bytes (base64url encoded) code verifier.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | `false`      |

> ### Configure Login

Reviewer 2: I think it's fine to remove the sections that don't add to what is already covered in the table (like the login, display name and email address).

Author: Gone!
